# From SEO to AEO How Answer Engine Optimization Is Replacing Search for B2B Marketers

**Expert:** brendan-hufford
**Date:** 2025
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lMyYbBHXuG8

---

## Transcript

Hey everybody, welcome to today's show. We're going to be diving in and talking about how everyone is focused on SEO, but we believe you should be focusing on GEO just as much as the importance of the AI. AI search just becomes more and more important every day. We're seeing this ourselves, Andy. So off the top of your head, what is the biggest uh argument you could make just for the importance of focusing on GEO? Generative >> Well, you know what? Before I get into that, I'm just going to throw out there's generative engine optimization, GEO. There's AEO which some people say is AI engine optimization or answer engine optimization. I have been thinking about this and I believe that it should be AEO answer engine optimization because my feeling is that these AI engines their goal is to provide an answer for someone. They're not just generating things. they are answering things for people. And so really this idea that even search engines were answer engines but you had to get the answer for yourself. They just kind of sent you in the right direction, >> right? >> But now these AI engines truly are answer engines because they're delivering a solution and answer what you want. And so I've been really trying to lean into AEO uh versus generative engine optimization because I think gen generation you can generate anything doesn't necessarily mean that it's what people are looking for. >> That's a great point and I like the thought behind that. The one that I've heard that I like because I agree. I think before we dive into it, we need to figure out what it is, right? It's a good point on generative. generative can be generic and could like not help someone find their path. Um, I heard that SEO just becomes search everything optimization because ultimately it's the same concept is just doing it across a varied channel, right? So, I thought that one was interesting and I haven't heard there was like someone >> on LinkedIn or something said that and kind of made their case. I thought it was interesting. So, but regardless of what we call it, um, important everyone knows what we're talking about, but regardless of what we call it, why is it now so important? Not just like as something coming or like like it's already happened, >> right? Well, and I think a lot of search optimization folks are staying on the train like people still search. It's still such a great channel. Um I want to step back and talk about the human side of it, right? >> Is that we as humans want to reduce pain and friction >> and right now when you think of search, fantastic. It's worked for years. People are accustomed to it. So it's not going away. They're going to continue to do it. But at the end of the day, they are going to migrate to what is the least painful, what is the most pleasurable, what reduces friction in their day. And the reality is is that answers instead of, you know, links is what people are going to want. And so even if today there is still a chunk of people that are searching, there is no doubt in my mind based off of human nature that it will continue to shift. I already think a big percentage of people use answer engine optimiz answer engines to find what they're looking for because it reduces friction, reduces pain, gets them to what they want and it feels good because you're getting something instantly. And so that human nature of pain, pleasure, speed, all these things we want. I have no doubt no matter what you think about search engines that everything is going to go towards what humans want most. Speed, answers, less pain, less friction, all of that stuff. So no matter what you think, you better be paying attention now to this answer engine approach, >> right? And I love your answer there because it's that it goes back to human nature and always in marketing, I feel like there's always, you know, as technology advances, you always hear, oh, people are going to do this now. And it's like it's easy enough to predict broadly if you just focus on human behavior. So to your points, move away from pain, move towards pleasure. How do you get there? By getting answers, right? People are looking to solve problems and as easy as possible, reducing the friction. So I love how you summed it up there. Something that >> even the search engines you we know they're moving in that direction as well. >> They're now answering at the top. And if we don't believe that they don't see that that's the trend and they're going to continue to go towards less friction, less pain, you know, uh more of that immediate satisfaction, uh I think we're all crazy. And so I will say to my brethren SEO folks out there because we've been in that boat for a while, I appreciate that you're chomping at the bit that the numbers are showing there's still a lot of people searching. Um but our world's uh completely changed. So don't you know if you're holding on to the past uh you're going to get run over. I mean our business simple example but we get 90 plus% of our new business from inbound organic and we've seen in this calendar year 2025 more than half I would say close to 60% of the people coming to us it used to be 98.9% from Google it's now answer engines they're saying they found us chat GPT perplexity you know all the others um Super interesting like how fast that shift happened. >> Yeah. And I think you know one thing that I've heard is that people are really concerned about zeroclick searches right >> zero click search means you do a search in Google it does actually provide an AI answer and there is no next click you know and now uh those AI answers do have links so you may get some but I think there's a reality that we need to understand is that there are going to be more zeroclick searches but once there is a click It's going to be much more intentful. >> Right. >> Right. And so instead of us getting a thousand clicks and a bunch of looks that are, you know, trying to figure out if that click is the right thing they were looking for. Now it's going to be by the time they actually click, they're going to have a solid idea that they're clicking in the right place because the answer engine is going to deliver an answer for them. it's going to help give them context for it and then they're only going to click the link because they still want to learn more. They still want to validate that answer. So, what I think people are going to see is it's not necessarily worrying about zero click. It's more the idea that you're going to have less um junk traffic and much more intentful traffic, which means that every single visit is going to be way more important because you're not going to get 10,000, you're going to get a thousand, but those thousand are going to be much more impactful and intentful. [snorts] >> That's a great point point. And it's important to kind of reframe how we're viewing this type of search traffic or answer engine traffic. It's not just the early stage exploratory. You and I have talked a lot about it's not just discovery. Um it is a lot deeper. It is validation. it is asking about I I I've said I always go in and ask whenever a company doesn't provide pricing info. I go into chat GPT or GR and I'll ask like what is they what do they usually you know price it at and it always comes back with some some range. So it's like people are much more informed. We know that we talked about that in the the first episode, but um I think that's just an important consideration is those different types of like prompt categories as as you've talked about. >> Yeah. In my book, I've got seven prompt categories. And and I I know we'll go into them in depth, but I think for this episode, what's important to understand is again the shift, right? is that search was about unearthing um links for people to then go do their own research. They wanted reviews or if they wanted to compare, they could do that. They could search, you know, um this product versus this product, but they would have to click on a link and they would have to evaluate. And so search optimization was purely a discovery stage model, right? Um but these answer engines are taking us much further. If you type in this product versus this product, it creates a chart for you that it has gathered information from 40 different sources to actually provide you that chart. And so you don't have to go visit four or five sites and understand it, you know. And so now it's not just discovery, but it's comparison. And then for fit, they're going to ask, does X company or these companies work with my type of business? And the answer engine in these days now will know what your type of business is. You won't even have to tell it. And so it'll come and it now is doing fit. do you fit my needs? Right? And so there are these whole new categories that answer engines are exposing. Um and so instead of it being search and then you're doing all of these things on websites fit comparison validation, all of these actions that used to happen there now are happening in the answer engines. And so we really think of discovery, which was the main channel, to now being all of these different categories. And just to kind of round all of that out is that I really think a lot of the old school marketers and SEO people are still thinking discovery, >> right? >> Still thinking like, I've got to get this brand to show up to just be discovered. But that's not the new reality. The new reality is I have to get this brand not just to show up, but for it to communicate the right information that will convince somebody in fit in comparison in validation because if I don't do that, I'll never get that click. And then if I don't get that click, I don't have the chance to to have that intentful traffic. I'll give you a real world example and I didn't even think about it until you were talking, but this week in between as I'm working throughout the week, my daughter turned 16 last month. I want to get her a car. So, I want to get something safe for her and the right vehicle. So, I've just been searching for kind of the models that she's said she likes. I've just been loading it in. I've been providing, what I've done is I've narrowed down kind of what she wants, putting a link to the car listed at the dealership with all the details, the window sticker because you can download it and the Carfax that shows history and stuff like that. And I basically loaded a bunch of them up and I'm using Manis, you know, I love Manis. And Manis just kind of gave this whole report on here's my recommendations. You should absolutely not buy this one. It's not safe. so on so forth, too many miles, whatever. And it got down to two. It was basically the same model. Um, one had slightly lower mileage, one was slightly less in price, but it was like barely anything. And it made the recommendation, go with the one that's higher priced. It's got just a few hundred miles extra on there, and it but it's only a few hundred bucks more. But the dealership that it's at has outstanding reviews. people are saying it is the top dealership of that make um in the region. The other one has kind of so so that was the deciding factor that it came back. But it came back to your point with a list of kind of like checking boxes saying, you know, this car checks all these. This one miss is missing here, here, here. And like I did so little work other than just finding them and just putting them in there. I'm going tomorrow. I have an appointment at that dealership. So like >> shout out for old school marketing and say Jeep Wranglers, which I am a Wrangler person, are the best car. >> So >> it's funny because that is the one that my daughter wanted, one of them, but the safety ratings came back for a teenager. So >> 100% safe. >> So [laughter] yeah. >> No, that's great. And I totally agree with you. It's it's that's the world we live in now because think of the pain and friction for you before. I want to go back to that human nature because I do think you know under all of marketing under most things is human nature. Um think of the pain and friction from before for you to do that is that you would literally search all these cars. You'd have to go to 20 sites. You'd probably have to copy information into a document if you really wanted to do it right. I mean, that old school, that's how I would do it. And then like for your reviews of different uh dealerships, you'd have to again go to multiple sites, maybe social media, and you'd have to far it out what's real or what's not. Um, and so this thing that used to be 10 hours of our lives at night is now probably a couple of minutes. >> And so we really have to think about that. >> I it doesn't matter what anybody thinks. Humans are going to like water find the easiest path. And so I think we really have to understand that there is no no alternative other than answer engine will be where people go and what we need to make sure our brands have presence in >> 100%. Um and before we wrap up here today like I love this topic. We could probably go on and I know we'll do more in this series, but what would you say like what are the next steps if someone is this is like really resonating? What is how do you get started in answer engine optimization? >> Well, I you know I can't help but plug a little bit. One, read my book, The Omnisient Buyer, because I talk a lot about this in depth. to our product frictionless which helps you audit AI engines to figure out for different prompts what they would say about your brand. Uh and within it we even uh start with your personas who is the audience the humans figure out what would they ask and then help you figure out what the AI engines answer. So I think two good places are one get familiar with it two audit and whether you use our tool you do it manually or you find another tool audit and then after that uh I talk a lot in the book about and we'll probably get into it there is a change in the way that you create content it's going to be auditing old content to make sure that you don't have inaccuracies out there because no matter how buried it is or how old it is, the AI engines have it in their database now, >> right? >> So, you want to fix it, >> you know. Two, uh we're shifting from this mindset of, you know, creativity for humans and interest to uh consistency for AI engines because they're algorithms and they understand connections of words together in patterns. And so, you know, an idea of moving from trying to influence humans to giving AI engines patterns is definitely something that we're going to need to be thinking about. So, those are just some initial pieces. There's so much more to it. Huge topic. Um, but definitely start with just understanding it better. Omnition buyer and doing some AI auditing. >> Yeah. No, great suggestions. If you guys want to check out Frictionless, frictionless HQ.com, take a look there. Um, very cool platform or get in there manually and as you said, just start to find out what the AI engines are reporting back when you mention your brand. So, but get to it, get working on it, be aware of it because it's here. It's not coming or it's it's already been here. Um, going to get more and more important and I'm sure we'll go a lot deeper on on some of the things we talked about here today. So, thanks Andy. We'll see everybody next time. Thanks for tuning in. Take care everybody. >> Thanks everybody. Happy birthday Tony.
