# The SEO Playbook for the AI Age with Kevin Indig

**Expert:** kevin-indig
**Date:** May 2025
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eepyi-NYFiM

---

## Transcript

LLMs make decisions based on how often something occurs in their training set and where. As a small business, you want to be as visible on as many websites as possible, but in a non-spammy way, right? If there's a way for you to get media coverage, basically any mention on the web in a positive sentiment, in a positive context is very valuable. Welcome to the marketing meeting podcast. Uh my guest today is Kevin Indic. He is a growth advisor and an SEO expert. Formerly, he led SEO and growth as Shopify and is now an adviser to some of the world's fastest growing startups. Welcome, Kevin. Thank you so much for having me. Uh where does this podcast find you? I'm right now in a small town in Michigan. Essentially, if you were to draw a line between Detroit and Chicago, I'm smack in the middle. Oh, I mean, uh, I haven't been to Chicago. I haven't been to Detroit. I haven't been to Michigan, but I'll try to make it before the winter comes at this time. Highly advisable. Uh, yeah. Uh, there are two questions that I ask every guest at the very end of the podcast and today I decided to bring those questions up forward because one of my guests and one of my um, listeners said, okay, I mean like the best question is at the end. The question is first of all, what's your favorite coffee place uh in Michigan? Ah, Michigan is tough. Michigan is tough. Uh I lived for many years in San Francisco in the Silicon Valley and there my favorite coffee place is called Fields with a Z. Uh amazing pourover. I I did a lot of work there. Um fantastic environment. Here it's a little trickier to find something like Phils. Um, but I would say, you know, cuz I live in a a small kind of uh uh town here. So, there's this massive coffee culture, but there's a really nice place uh in the middle of downtown that is kind of your classic hipster coffee but with a good work atmosphere. And that to me, coffee and I just it triggers work mode in me. So, for me, it's it's almost like a productivity tool. But what's the name of that place if we can learn? Let's check it out. Okay. I have to say, uh, I'm not exactly sure, but I'll grab it for you in a second because my specialty is search. Um, it is called Fourth Coast Cafe and Bakery. Wow. Okay. Uh, and when you go there, is there nowadays a favorite book that you would recommend to the listeners? Oh my, you know, there there are some books that I just keep coming back to. Um, I don't like re-watching movies or TV shows, but there are some books that I think every time I reread them, they provide an incredible amount of value and they have a different taste and I think it's because you are in a different situation in your life. And the one that I would pick is called the 15 commitment. The 15 commitments of conscious leadership. Uh the 15 commitments is a book about a collection of principles. It's not just for leaders. I obviously I read the first time when I was in people management. I let large teams and organizations at tech companies and it is also a an incredible guide for life. Um, I find the values and the the the the value and the lessons in the book to be absolutely profound. And so I just basically I always have my nose in that book at some point of time cuz there's just it's a good reminder and there's so many new things that you miss the first time you read it. Mhm. I'll definitely check it out because I'm about to finish the book that I have and I made it an effort to finish a book and then order the new one or buy the new one. Uh so I don't pile up anymore as I used to. But I'll check that out. Uh so uh as you might imagine, I have questions about SEO. And uh back in the early days, um SEO was about, you know, stuffing keywords into blog posts into the websites and trying to rank rank high on Google. But you know that this has changed. Um can you explain a bit about what has changed and the modern SEO of today? 100%. It's interesting because I would say there are several eras of SEO. The beginning, as you correctly said, very spammy, very hacky. That's I started at the tail end of that. So, I was never too deep into these kind of hacky things, but SEO certainly had the rep back when I started that it was a spamming hacky thing. Uh, and so I was lucky that it kind of became something um that now almost every company adopts as a as a marketing mix. And so the second era which I would say started probably around 2008 um was much more you know it was a bit more measured. Google penalized too much stuffing too much aggressive link building. Uh so they really started to implement some laws I would say in search because it became you know so so popular and such a fruitful channel for so many companies. Um and then I would say the third era was probably that probably started around 2016 and lasted until I would say 2022. Uh and that era was much more refined. So Google was understanding much better what users want. Google augmented the search results with features like maps or image carousels or YouTube videos. Um, and it was generally, you know, one of these eras where you still had a good idea of all the different things that work. You got clear feedback signals from Google, but um, it wasn't that hacking spammy anymore. It was it got wide adoption. The era that we're in right now that started about two to three years ago, we could probably already imagine what that is, and that's the AI era. So now we're in a place where Google not just answers questions directly in the search results instead of sending users users to websites but we also see a lot more competition to Google from chat GPT but also sometimes from smaller platforms like Pinterest uh bigger platforms like Amazon Tik Tok so there's a fragmentation there's obviously AI and it it leads to a completely new sets or one set of new ways to go about SEO. Mhm. And uh in the earlier era which is before 2022, you know, this AI craziness uh you know just was obvious around everywhere. Um I think we already started talking about that the website quality, the user experience, the links in the back and everything was getting more important and we will have to uh provide some trustworthy content to our um readers. Uh has that changed that fundamental thing has changed on this new era? No, I would say that fundamental is stable. It's actually very interesting because Google is in at least two very public and big lawsuits right now from the Department of Justice. And within that lawsuit, or at least within one of the lawsuits, Google is actually more or less forced to explain how they went about ranking for many years. And one of the surprising findings is that Google has looked at clicks and user behavior for way longer than we thought. So when SEO started, we thought it was just about keyword stuffing and backlinks and then content became more important and then eventually user experience became more important and we thought it's this kind of natural progression from very technical factors to more softer factors. What's actually true is that the soft factors were always kind of in there which is fascinating. But long story short, the main ingredients to the pie are not changing. It's still the same recipe to make the dough, but the frosting changes and maybe some of the decoration changes a little bit, you know, uh, you know, maybe some of the ingredients are replaced for slightly different, you know, uh, ingredients like vegan friendly ingredients or something like that. So, the basic composure is the same, but some of the details are different. And because SEO is so marginal and incremental these details can matter a lot. Um maybe because my questions first questions are around AI usual mainly because we are in that era but uh I think there there was um in in the old in podcast there was this code of AI search will replace classic search like Google. I think the search behavior is changing for people. I mean for me it has changed but there are still incidents that I'm going to the regular Google search and omitting the AI overview and then going below. Um how has it changed for other people because I'm just talking about myself right now. Sure. Sure. Sure. You know it's fascinating because I just published this big usability study about how people actually interact with Google's AI answer. I'm not going to make it too technical, but we essentially for the first time ever tracked and recorded people as they browse the search results and solve certain tasks. And one thing that we find or I mean there there's lots of findings, but one thing that's really surprising is that trust is an actual is an absolute core ingredient to the experience. which means that users select sources or search results based on whether they trust the brand or the company and then whether they think it answers their question. Same for other AI experiences, right? Trust is so important because we know that AI can hallucinate but also because sometimes the stakes are just very high as in if I'm searching for say the side effects of a drug obviously that has big implications and so I want to make sure that the answer that I get is trustworthy and with AI that's people are still very skeptical and rightfully so. So yeah, anyway, long story short, one of the big big aspects of succeeding in this AI world, wherever you are, however big your business is, is really a trust first mindset, which means you need to position yourself and put yourself out there in a way that it fosters trust. So maybe the price in some cases is less important and it's much more important for users to know that in your small business you have a maybe you have one or more experts who help you with the you know crafting the product or with the right service or maybe you have a very high rate of happy customers or maybe you have you've been in the business for a very long time. You know, anything that fosters trust and engagement with your audience can really come in handy with search because it means before people maybe even have a need, before they even want to search, your brand or name is already top of mind for them. And so when they see it, they might select it as a trustworthy source. Mhm. So for people um to understand for people who who does don't know too details but like when you go to Google when you search something there's like an AI overview and it's called Google AI overview and there is also like an abbreviation to that and so on and it takes like a big chunk of your screen especially when you're on mobile and we know that the clickthrough rates to the websites especially the smaller publishers or smaller content creators are getting lower. Uh but there is I've read a study that like big publishers like Reddit, Wikipedia and so on uh they are getting they are incre in increasingly getting better um better traffic. Is that the case right now? That is the case and the reason is that these platforms are being used to validate answers from AI. So you're absolutely right. um publishers and basically like most websites maybe with the exception of small local businesses are seeing a lot less web traffic from Google because users get the answers right in the search results. In a lot of cases they don't have to click through to a website anymore. However, um as we spoke about earlier, that trust element is so important. And so what we're seeing, what we saw in the study is that for high-risk queries or search searches, um users will validate their answer answers on platforms like Wikipedia, Reddit, YouTube, and other forums or communities. So people want that balance between an efficient AI answer but also double-checking with a human to see if that is a correct answer or if the answer is more nuanced or or something else. So yes, these platforms are getting more attention which means that for you you want to find ways to be present there. Now it's tough to be present on Wikipedia um but Reddit, YouTube, LinkedIn etc. it's very possible to be present there in a in a in a measured and um trust building way and I think every business has has to ask themselves how to do it. Mhm. So it means that then AI is looking to when it's coming with an overview it's looking to more trustworthy sites that has positive clicks that is established that is credible and so on. um this just I think monopoly uh is supporting monopoly type of thing and it's just like you know I'm just I can't imagine uh a small business owner just you know hanging in there with with that uh it's an interesting one so I mean like is there any so there are two questions that comes to my mind one of them is the llm visibility which is the large language models and if we can get any content up in there in the LMS is there any way that we can do that or is there any suggestions that you advise to your clients? Yeah, 100%. Uh so there are two or three things you want to um do to be as present as possible. First of all, LLMs make decisions based on how often something occurs in their training set and where. So, long story short, as a small business, you want to be as visible on as many websites as possible, but in a non-spammy way, right? So, you don't want to just go out and kind of, you know, comment your name on all sorts of websites and forums and social media. You don't want to do that. But if there's a way for you to get media coverage, even small local newspapers, that is incredibly valuable. Basically any mention on the web in a positive sentiment, in a positive context is very valuable. Uh that is number one. Number two is if possible you want to create content that is hyperargeted for your audience. What that means is because users can search such longer questions on chat chip and now also on Google because of Google's AI overviews, they can also express their exact need much much better. So instead of maybe searching for uh you know um I have to make something up but um maybe maybe uh uh baby crib uh which would they would have searched on Google maybe they searched for something like baby crib for you know um toddlers that have trouble sleeping in it obviously maybe it doesn't make sense but you get my drift here. people can better express what exactly they're searching for. And so for you on the other hand, you want to figure out ways to create content that addresses very very specific needs. You need to talk to your target audience for that and truly understand what are the problems that they're trying to solve that are relevant for you. Of course, um because nobody knows what people prompt on LLMs, right? It's it's nobody has that data. Maybe the LM developers, but even for them, it's probably very noisy. And so the key here is again be as visible as possible to create content that LMS can site. And the way to create the right content is to deeply understand who you're serving or who you're selling to and what problems they have with as much detail as possible so you can address it in your content. Mhm. Uh back to your point one which is the media visibility then it means that PR and partnerships and everything is getting also again back on track uh quite important right absolutely yeah way more important I mean it you know you this is interesting paradox because you could say it was always important right and companies should have always done that and that is that is true and it now becomes even more important because it has such an outsized impact on your visibility on Google and on on LMS which means that companies probably treat it with a new quality and maybe a new way to scale PR. I also say that for a long time PR was just a new update on your product and that's not as useful as maybe the storytelling and data aspect of PR. There's a lot there's a lot there. Mhm. I want to ask you a question because this is a dilemma that I face as a consumer myself also when I'm trying to search something you know at the days at back of the days there were like some platforms that I was liking and then I started using Reddit a lot because you know you can get some uh you know real user advice but now we know that everyone every brand is investing in Reddit and then I can easily understand that some of the posts and promoted uh comments are in there as well. Where does it take us to? Because users will know that the comments in Reddit are also some most of them are sponsored and it will gets more and more and any other platform it's the same. So I mean we are looking I'm personally looking for a trustworthy place that is not promoted that is real user experience and at least the promotion is a little bit less than the others. Where does this take us to in terms of search? Yeah, it's it's you know it's very interesting because um I did some non-scientific research into why people like Reddit because for me, you know, I've always been following Reddit a little bit, but I was never very active there. Uh and it's also an oddball because it's a forum from the web 2.0 era, right? So what's this doing here now all of a sudden in the search results? And what I found is that first of all the perception about Reddit for most non-marketers right for most consumers is that they do get an an answer from a human there and they get an unbiased answer uh because um it's it's mostly people who actually tried the product out and and because also there's this culture around Reddit, right? So, Reddit has strong antibodies against spammers and people who are overly promotional, which does not mean that that doesn't exist on Reddit. It does exist on Reddit, right? It's possible it does exist on Reddit, but in this in the grand scheme of things, um it's still pretty it's still a pretty good platform and gives you pretty decent answers. And you have these antibodies from the community itself, which might flag you or downrank you. You have karma as an anti-body. And you also have the moderators which some of them are like very very diligent right so I would say altogether it doesn't prevent spam and you can see that in the Reddit reports as well they do show how much spam they removed uh they're probably going to have to fight even harder now which is why they want to uh verify humans uh uh you know similar to LinkedIn where you make a little video with your passport and stuff and you jump on a call with another human who makes sure you actually are human. Um, but uh, sure there will always be a gateway to spam similar to Google search, but I think in the grand scheme of things, people value Reddit because it's most likely an answer from another human. It's authent and it's authentic answer that is not necessarily biased or sponsored and it's probably the last place on the web where that's the case. I think that's still a a place that, as you said, it's like a gam. Uh, but it being a human doesn't mean that you're not sponsored. That's my thing. and and it's going to you know as this thing is go make um is this era is making brands harder and harder to reach out to customers like we are not we are skipping ads we are not looking to them we know that influencers are promoted and then people are turning to Reddit and marketers will going to eventually invest in platforms like credit like innocent platforms like credit uh and then I'm just like okay what's coming up next after this that's why I had this question and uh I actually have another question about uh chatgpt or platforms like perplexity and like AI and as they are becoming places for us to do search. There are two aspects to that. First of all, they are collecting a lot of data from us like and they are now ready to customize this data to serve us ads soon probably. Uh do you think that they're gonna take ads uh soon or is it already happening that we don't know? Yeah, it's interesting because there is a slide deck about OpenAI that shows that they might look into advertising next year. It's just a slide deck, right? Uh, and on the other hand, you have Sam Alman, the the CEO of OpenAI, publicly saying that he doesn't like ads and that he would prefer some sort of like affiliate commission, for example, in shopping. So, let's see. I think ads down the line are probably inevitable. Mhm. and I respect them for starting with a subscription model, but I think something like Netflix is probably going to most like be most likely where the free tier has some ads and then you can pay to basically not have ads. Um, but I think also that users have gotten so habituated and used to a free experience on Google because it's funded by ads uh and other I mean social networks that it's likely that some ads will come in here or let's put it this way. I'm I'm very confident that OpenAI will test ads or experiment with ads. Whether they will roll it out broadly or not, it's a bit harder to say. I also personally wish that they somehow figure out a way to not use ads. Uh I think you know look like I'm saying that as somebody who has ads in his own newsletter, right? So I I also do have sponsorships and advertising but uh you know I think many platforms are too crowded with ads and makes for a poor user experience. And you could argue that that's something that these platforms can measure and then balance out uh plus the content is good enough or the answers and people will tolerate ads. So I can argue both ways but it's very likely to give you a short answer. Yeah. And also like when we look at at Google for example they they you know that which ones are sponsored at the end of the day and you know you can skip that also or you can just take you know I hope they found a good model uh about that but uh I'm sure that it's going to come our way because I mean we know that ad um ad monetization is one of the big things to for a company to grow it for a tech company to grow uh and uh I see that coming in also. Um so I want to move to the website experiences and um so when right now I'm about to revisit my website. We are working on the new design. It's the third time I'm doing the website again and same with another client. I'm we are just about to revisit the website. What are some musthaves in terms of both from an SEO perspective and a user experience perspective because you are working a lot with the website experience as well. Yeah, absolutely. I love that you start there instead of saying like what of what are the most important SEO ranking factors because the the experience in itself is so critical and I'm telling you why. Um, first of all, one principle you want to hold very high is to make it easy for users to find critical information. So, you want to use elements like table of contents, key takeaways, um, summaries, FAQs, um, anything that makes it easy to skim the content and then say, "Oh, yeah, okay, that's exactly the answer that I wanted. Boom, I got it. Okay, cool." Either I'm gone or I'm staying on the website and I'm checking something else out. What I've seen in this study that I uh ran over and over is that people react very strongly to these little elements that highlight pieces or highlight the answer or make it easier to find what they're looking for. Uh after all, people have a very low tolerance for um you know disruption like ads or pop-ups. Uh they are short on time, short on attention. And so um the reality is everybody skims content. Nobody starts at the top and then goes like reads it all through. No, usually people will scroll through the whole page first and then see what's interesting or might what might answer their question and then they look for more signals of whether that question is trustworthy or whether it really answers everything that they were looking for. So, uh these elements are critical. Um good headings, right? Like um I think there's two ways to go about headings. There is kind of the more sto storytelling approach where headings are maybe harder to understand unless you have the context of the rest of the content and then there are very descriptive headings and you want to from a search perspective and LM perspective you want to go with a more descriptive headings because search engines and LLMs understand the relationship between a heading and a sentence and a paragraph. So you want to be very deliberate and making it descriptive. Um and then uh u you know uh making it easy to read I think and this is probably very vague but um that means avoid gray fonts right make it black have a contrast between the font and the background of the website. Uh, but this is for the people-to-people experience, right? Not for the bots that are scanning your site or LLMs trying to get some information, right? It it translates. It translates. So, um, because the user experience is so important, at least for Google search, um, it it means that you want to make sure that user experience is um, heavily factored into a website design, a website redesign. Um at the same time because LLMs lean so much on search results to give weight to their answers by being well positioned in search in classic search you are also well positioned forms in many many cases not exclusively but in many cases. So that whole aspect around design, layout, composition, easility of navigation, easility of reading, all of these things do matter. And I will say, you know, like in many cases, small businesses are probably well served with a really good template on on WordPress or web flow that that they can then customize. Not everybody has to start from the ground up. But if you can afford a really good, you know, brand consultant or brand agency to help you with these kind of things, it's it's an it's a big bonus. and is it the this is the this is a question that I have u u I just checked your website before the before this call and it's quite simple it's very straightforward it's all I need was there like and I'm sure that for someone who's looking into getting some expertise from you it's it's in there u but I mean we have this uh thinking that if a website gets bigger in terms of like the tree design like you have more pages you are just jumping from one thing to another. Does it still help those technical hacks still help the SEO and visibility? Yeah, they absolutely help. Uh and I think about my side, I can probably do an even like a better job. Uh but thank you for the compliment. Uh but yeah, sure to get back to the question. uh those things still do very much help and the reason is that search engines and LLMs are not yet a perfect reflection of the user experience and user perception. There's still things that are different for users and for humans, sorry, for bots and for humans. Uh and you need to facilitate for that. You mentioned internal linking having links not just in the top navigation but also in your content. Big help. Um, you want to make sure that there's some mobile optimiz sorry optimized version of your site. Even if most of your visitors use desktop devices or iPads or tablets, um, search engines use mobile crawlers only, which means they only look at your website through the men's lens of mobile. And so if you don't have some like a version of that that can that can be damaging to you even though your users come through desktop. So yes these things matter internal linking speed uh even though speed matters less than most people think. Uh mobile optimized um uh uh website um and then of course the right metadata the right title the right description all that kind of stuff. All these things absolutely matter. Um, and in this first era of SEO, they mattered so much more than what the actual user experience was and what what the website showed. And now that's not necessarily the case anymore. Mhm. And do we should we still try to put like blog posts and some resources like in written context uh to our website? Does it really still matter um a lot? it matters uh for larger companies uh for smaller companies I think there's a content strategy as well but I will also say that smaller companies can do maybe generalizing here but there is a higher need of having some critical information on your site so when I'm thinking about a restaurant for example you want to have the menu on there you want to have your opening times on there right um any business should probably have pictures about the business on there maybe a story about the founder and then if I were to own, you know, like a a restaurant or a little mom and pop shop around the corner here. I would create some content just around, you know, um that that hopefully fosters trust maybe around um the selection of products or maybe around the purpose of the business. Maybe there's a family history involved here. Maybe there's a community aspect involved here. Can you highlight community members, people who come over? you know there's I think there's so much depth that you can provide even as a small business side that is outside of classic search engine optimization whereas of course if you're a big venture funded SAS startup or consumer marketplace of course content gets a very different quality for you you can scale it differently you want to target search terms I think as a small small local business uh the question is much more how can you foster trust with uh with local people and if you're a small business that is not local I mean I have small business in that sense theoretically that I think it's a lot about um thought leadership being transparent about how you work who you work with maybe your results uh so I think there's a content strategy in the cards for everyone but to your point it doesn't always have to be the blog it doesn't always have to be like the resources you can be creative in that sense as well and I think that that often pays off because you stand out and you're more memorable do you see with your newsletter and so on uh that you are hosting them at another platform other than your website because people are using substack and so on. Uh does it also link to your website or do you see that happening right now? Yeah, you know my my personal website is not very search optimized like maybe not at all. Uh and that that's okay. It's more like a business card for me. So I'm I'm a solo adviser, solo consultant. Um, so, um, but sure it does trans the newsletter does translate into more business. Uh, it's now at 19,000 subscribers. Uh, and there's a light link in the about section on my newsletter or in my Substack over to my personal site. But you know what's interesting is a lot of my clients either hear about me through word of mouth. So they're checking with their network or they see my LinkedIn content and then when they consider me as a potential partner they check out my content to validate how I think you know and uh kind of I hear this all the time. It's not it's not the first source of how they found me in most cases, but it's more the second or third source to kind of check out how, you know, how does Kevin take, how does he think about these topics and and all that kind of stuff. But of course, it's it's a huge driver of business in that sense because otherwise, how would people know? Um, so yeah, it's it's an interesting dynamic. Uh, and I was just talking about someone today how surprising it is, how good that works. But, uh, yeah, there are many ways for for you know, people to to find you. uh sometimes it's SEO and sometimes the content is not doing well in search at all but it's still valuable. Mhm. I mean is if an SEO advisor is getting more from word of mouth and from LinkedIn than uh through the website then it says something I guess although you say that you you need to do better job in in terms of SEO for your site but if it works for you then it's it's it's good than uh especially for people doing similar type of work. Uh one more thing about the websites because I know that you work a lot with e-commerce brands. How can e-commerce brands optimize their product page nowadays? Not just to rank but to actually drive conversions uh with is there any best practice that you want to share over there? It's a great question. Uh I love that because I actually think product pages are becoming a lot more important. So quick backtrack. Um Google has recently launched a new shopping experience that basically is a new category page. They show a feed of products. uh also sometimes with an IM AI embedded but uh essentially a feed of cards with different products and price etc. And so um that feed is obviously obviously consists of product pages not category pages and it it usually shows up at the very top of the search results. And so what that means is that it used to be that category pages are most important for for e-commerce. They're still somewhat important, but product pages have become a lot more important because they show up in this new product shopping experience on Google. And so there's a couple things to keep in mind. Uh obviously like the visual aspect is always the most important. So images, having good product images, several from different angles. If you're selling fashion, for example, you want to show how it looks like on a person and maybe not on a person. So, make it visually easy for people to understand all the aspects of the product. Close-up shot, uh, further away shots, you know, uh, all the all the different things. Maybe a video. Um, second, you obviously want to highlight price after, you know, people price matters a lot. Uh and after people have a good visual understanding of the product and they're still intrigued, then they're scanning factors like uh what's the price, what's the shipping time, what's the warranty or or send back kind of guarantee how or return policy better said. Um and then they look for things like reviews um or more context around the product. Maybe there's you know some description around the material of the product. So these are the most important elements. What becomes more important now for product page optimization is um the whole aspect around reviews and FAQs, frequently asked questions. So what temperature should I wash this product uh with? Uh is it uh resistant to water? Um is it you know how long does it last? All these kind of questions are critical not just because of conversion rate optimization. It has a big impact but also because it helps LM to better understand the relevance of your product or the attributes and the details of your product. Sure, for you know hardcore conversion optimization, you can do things like you know one-click signup. So let people sign up with their Google account. You can reduce the number of steps in the checkout flow. You can offer buy now pay later plans with CLA or with uh Later Pay or or one of these other uh companies. Um credit card payments obviously. Um and and so those things matter as well. But what's so much more interesting is that when you do a good job selling the product like you were in a store, then some of these hurdles of checkout and payment don't matter as much because people are much more willing to overcome them. Whereas, if your product is maybe, you know, they're not so sure, but they know they can return it if they don't like it, then maybe some like like a poor checkout can actually turn them off and and can can prevent you from making the sale. Um, is there any like I'm sure that there are some common mistakes that uh e-commerce companies are doing like is there any one or two top common mistake that you see e-commerce brands are doing on their sites? Yeah, I I think not providing enough detail is one critical aspect because uh I think you know maybe some companies know this, but I would argue a lot of companies don't invest the time to truly understand their audience and so there might be something that they're looking for that is critical for their purchase decision. So maybe some people really care about the sustainability aspect of the product. Uh if that's not reflected in the content or somewhere on the page, uh they they might not buy the product from you, they might buy it from someone else. So, I think not enough content is is probably the biggest sin. And I would say the the second biggest sin is just poor product images, not having a video, having the wrong angle of the product. You really want to invest in high quality product photography. Again, video um and uh being very mindful about the angles and the ways that you present the product. It's the same thing in a shop, right? If you go to a store and again if we stick with fashion uh and everything is cluttered and it's hard to find or there too many products then it's a big turnoff for people um whereas if it's if it's well presented the chance that somebody buys it is so much higher because you can fall in love with that product faster or even if it's about price right doesn't always have to be high in fashion if it's about price um and it's hard for you to figure out where the products are that are on sale or uh see the price of the product quickly then you might also not buy right so all these things kind of translate to the online experience and the biggest sins that I see people make or companies make is that they they don't think enough about reflecting or translating that instore experience to the online world that's a that's a good uh thinking um have you experienced any AI generated photography because you mentioned that photography high quality photography is very important in an e-commerce site have you experienced any AI generated photography. Uh lately I have um I haven't yet found a tool or a model that doesn't at least need a base shot. So at least one picture of the product where where AI is really good is making variations and presenting the product in different context. Uh so again is it all by itself? Is it is a fashion product worn by a person or is it I don't know like hanging down or something? Color change. color change, all these kind of things. That's where AI is really good at. And uh uh but you still need, excuse me, at least one really good shot of the product for the AI to to make sense of it. Mhm. So yeah, uh and okay. Yeah, that's that's clear to me because I was thinking does it hurt any rankings or does it hurt any SEO or or so on? But you mentioned that at least we should have one high quality product image so that AI can make the variations of that uh so that it doesn't or it doesn't go off the grit and prepare something uh odd uh that's not that's not the product itself probably. Exactly. Um my last question is uh if you for like the fundamentals for a marketer if you had to narrow it narrow it down uh what are the top three things every marketer should understand and actively do when it comes to SEO. Yeah. Hard question though but no no I think it's I think it's a really good question. We don't we don't ask it enough. So okay three things. Um I have a little bit of a I don't say a problem but something that bothers me is how little as marketers we've we talk to our target audience and the reason is that performance marketing has become so good right uh if you run ads on like Google or Facebook and all the other meta properties and alpha uh alphabet properties you usually get really good results and that has led to a world where we talk less and less to the people that we actually want to sell to And I think it's a big mistake. So I would say number one is you actually have a deep understanding of who you're selling to. Not just you know like sure age demographics and stuff yes but what problems are you trying to solve? How are they solving them today? How big are these problems? What are their preferences? You know do they want a cheap solution? Do they want a premium solution? Um where do they shop? What competitors do they look at? Like a really in-depth understanding. And that can sometimes come from only 10 people. Right? Right? I don't think every company needs to go out there and survey a thousand or 100,000 people. Start with 10 and see what the commonalities are. It also, by the way, shapes your business strategy a lot because if you realize that you're selling high-end artisan products to somebody who cares about price mostly, then you're you have you're tackling the wrong market, right? So anyway, uh I'm not going to go on a longer rant here, but understanding your target audience deeply, that's number one thing. Um number two, you as a marketer in this world need to juggle the performance aspect with the brand aspect. Let's put it this way. So what I mean by that is there is a balance to be had between running good ads which again for almost every business I think you can run really like online ads are just a viable channel for you. Um, but you don't want to forget all the things that you can also do on top of that to create a strong and lasting brand. Meaning to be memorable, talking to the right people with the right message, with the right positioning at the right time, right? These kind of classic marketing things. I feel like we've lost that as well a little bit at the cost of uh performance marketing. So, you want to juggle brand and performance. That's my number two. And then number three, um, is standing out. um whether it's search focused content, whether it's web design, whether it's a local mom and pop shop, not enough companies are thinking about how can I stay memorable, meaning like be different than what's out there? How can I differentiate, leave a lasting impression, and do something that maybe other companies are not doing? And it shouldn't be a gimmick, right? It shouldn't just be we're wearing pink hats in the store or you know like uh we're singing our uh you know uh brand audit or something to our customers. It shouldn't be gimmicky but at the end of the day and I mentioned this at the very beginning of our conversation which makes for a nice frame. At the end of the day there is a lot of competition out there and there are lots of options out there. And so you need to find ways to stand out in a way that customers remember you positively and in a way that vibes with your personality and your business and who you are. Thank you so much. Uh yesterday one of the podcasts uh someone said that there is a barber uh close to his house and his name is a barber near you. So the guy the guy this is so funny. It's just like he's standing out in Google search probably a barber near you. Yeah, I've seen those uh things a couple of times pop up. It's h such a symptom, but it's also funny. Yeah. Well, I mean, I've heard it for the first time. Anyway, uh thank you so much. And for listeners who want to learn more about you, is it the newsletter uh that they should check out or the LinkedIn page or the website? Yeah, all of the above. Uh all of the above. check out, you know, link LinkedIn. Feel free to to DM me uh and and uh u uh be patient with me because I have a full inbox all the time. But reach out or through my website, you know, um uh and the the newsletter is obviously where I share as much as I possibly can about the things that I learn and observe uh and study. So, all of the above, I would say. Thank you so much, Kevin. And I hope uh we'll have the chance to get coffee either in New York or in Michigan in the small coffee shop that you have. Yeah, I love it. Or we go to your favorite coffee uh shop. One of the two. Okay, one of our two. Thanks so much.
